Final Project Report (#53)
JoshLuong/Trippo: README.md

- **Above requirement replaced with**: Introducing a “share your itinerary” with others
:heavy_check_mark:

-Customize past users’ itineraries for the primary user
:heavy_check_mark:

-Customize itineraries for users based on their past experiences and preferences (recommended for you) :heavy_multiplication_x:

## Technologies Used: 

### - Unit 1: HTML, CSS, JS

Trippo uses CSS within React styled-components to write CSS and import style into functional components separately. Using CSS inside styled-components makes our React components more readable and uniform. CSS was easier to use for styling than HTML, along with adding design and flexibility to make the UI appear much more stylish and conveniently placed for Trippo users. We used TypeScript instead of JavaScript since it can detect bugs caused by dynamic typing that JavaScript cannot, and is a super set of JavaScript, making type recognition, reading, and working on each others code much easier.

### - Unit 2: React

> Trippo uses React to create functional UI components that are reactive to state changes within the application such as forms, map data, and itinerary information. React lets us use the dynamic features of TypeScript to efficiently organize and reuse components, and allows sharing of component properties and state so that the right data is always updated displayed throughout the application. Compared to plain JavaScript, React allowed us to split our UI into functional components which helped streamline the coding process between teammates, along with combining HTML and JavaScript wherever was required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Trippo uses React to create reusable, functional UI components that are reactive to state changes within the application such as forms, map data, and itinerary information. React lets us use the dynamic features of TypeScript to efficiently organize and reuse components, and allows sharing of component properties and state so that the right data is always updated displayed throughout the application.  Through various state management techniques (e.g. Redux, React Context) we were able to efficiently propagate any state changes to the React components, effectively updating the UI, while also benefiting from Redux's internal performance optimizations.
```

Reviewer: not sure if we wanna talk abt Redux/ state management tools we used... @andreram this sound ok?

Reviewer 2: yeah sounds good, one sentence on that should be okay

### - Unit 4: NoSQL with MongoDB

Trippo uses a MongoDB backend with custom schemas to store user, itinerary, and activity information. The flexible nature of NoSQL allowed us to plan a way that we wanted to store information, and make requests to the stored information in the MongoDB Atlas cloud database. With document-based query language and JSON-style information storage, working with and querying the data in our database was quicker and easier than would have been possible using traditional SQL storage considering our documents do not all have a standard layout.

### - Unit 5: Release Engineering

Trippo uses Git and GitHub for version control, with collaborators using different branches to write enhancements and fix bugs. We only push changes to the "final_project" branch after collaborators manually test enhancements to ensure there are no new bugs introduced. We set up an admin email with a new Heroku account, configuring the "final_project" branch to automatically deploy changes to the production build through Heroku because Heroku is a simple to use platform that team members were familiar with, and it contains GitHub integration. 

## Above and Beyond Functionality:

> Trippo securely uses the Google Login API to login to user accounts, linking itineraries to their Google login. Using the Mapbox map components, Trippo actively updates and displays itinerary information and activity information. Trippo uses custom Yelp API calls to get suggested destinations based on destination times and the business hours of suggested destinations. Trippo allows users the ability to create shareable read-only itinerary links that can be shared and accessed without creating an account, as well as creating a downloadable pdf of your full itinerary so any itinerary you make can be shared among your group, online or offline. The UI of Trippo is stylish, clean, and responsive to any changes the user makes, giving it a professional and practical appearance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Trippo securely uses the Google Login API `OAuth2Client` to log in to user accounts, linking itineraries to their Google login. Using the Mapbox map components, Trippo populates the map with custom-coloured activity pins, and sets custom latitude and longitudes during its first render. Trippo uses custom Yelp API calls to get suggested destinations based on user preferences, Trippo activity locations, destination times, and the business hours of suggested destinations. Trippo allows users the ability to create shareable read-only itinerary links that can be shared and accessed without creating an account, as well as creating a downloadable pdf of your full itinerary so any itinerary can be shared online or offline. With Trippo's focus on User Experience and usability, minute details such as the zoom functionality of the map, to the user feedback during any user changes, as well as overall style and responsiveness were not overlooked.
```

meh mb word it better xD

Reviewer 2: idk if i can make suggested changes to suggested changes LOL
maybe "colour-coded" over "custom-coloured." also maybe `Trippo allows users to share their itineraries online and offline by downloading their plans as a PDF or by copying read-only links that can be accessed without an account`

Author: ```suggestion
Trippo securely uses the Google Login API `OAuth2Client` to log in to user accounts, linking itineraries to their Google login. Using the Mapbox map components, Trippo populates the map with colour-coded activity pins, and sets custom latitude and longitudes during its first render. Trippo uses custom Yelp API calls to get suggested destinations based on user preferences, Trippo activity locations, destination times, and the business hours of suggested destinations. Trippo allows users to share their itineraries online and offline by letting users create read-only itinerary links that can be shared and accessed without creating an account, as well as generate downloadable PDFs of their full itineraries. With Trippo's focus on User Experience and usability, minute details such as the zoom functionality of the map, to the user feedback during any user changes, as well as overall style and responsiveness were not overlooked.
```

how's that?
